                        @- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -@
                        ///// 106. Exclusive rights in copyrighted works /////
                        @- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -@


Subject to sections 107 through 122, the owner of copyright under this title has the exclusive
rights to do and to authorize any of the following:

(1) to reproduce the copyrighted work in copies or phonorecords;

(2) to prepare derivative works based upon the copyrighted work;

(3) to distribute copies or phonorecords of the copyrighted work to the public by sale or other
transfer of ownership, or by rental, lease, or lending;

(4) in the case of literary, musical, dramatic, and choreographic works, pantomimes, and motion
pictures and other audiovisual works, to perform the copyrighted work publicly;

(5) in the case of literary, musical, dramatic, and choreographic works, pantomimes, and pictorial,
graphic, or sculptural works, including the individual images of a motion picture or other audiovisual work, to display the copyrighted work publicly; and

(6) in the case of sound recordings, to perform the copyrighted work publicly by means of a digital
audio transmission.






                @- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -@
                ///// 106a. Rights of certain authors to attribution and integrity /////
                @- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -@


(a) Rights of Attribution and Integrity.—Subject to section 107 and independent of the exclusive
rights provided in section 106, the author of a work of visual art—

(1) shall have the right—

(A) to claim authorship of that work, and

(B) to prevent the use of his or her name as the author of any work of visual art which he or she
did not create;

(2) shall have the right to prevent the use of his or her name as the author of the work of visual
art in the event of a distortion, mutilation, or other modification of the work which would be
prejudicial to his or her honor or reputation; and

(3) subject to the limitations set forth in section 113(d), shall have the right—

(A) to prevent any intentional distortion, mutilation, or other modification of that work which
would be prejudicial to his or her honor or reputation, and any intentional distortion, mutilation,
or modification of that work is a violation of that right, and

(B) to prevent any destruction of a work of recognized stature, and any intentional or grossly
negligent destruction of that work is a violation of that right.

(b) Scope and Exercise of Rights.—Only the author of a work of visual art has the rights conferred
by subsection (a) in that work, whether or not the author is the copyright owner. The authors of a
joint work of visual art are coowners of the rights conferred by subsection (a) in that work.

(c) Exceptions.—(1) The modification of a work of visual art which is the result of the passage of
time or the inherent nature of the materials is not a distortion, mutilation, or other modification
described in subsection (a)(3)(A).

(2) The modification of a work of visual art which is the result of conservation, or of the public
presentation, including lighting and placement, of the work is not a destruction, distortion,
mutilation, or other modification described in subsection (a)(3) unless the modification is caused
by gross negligence.

(3) The rights described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) shall not apply to any
reproduction, depiction, portrayal, or other use of a work in, upon, or in any connection with any
item described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of the definition of “work of visual art” in section 101,
and any such reproduction, depiction, portrayal, or other use of a work is not a destruction,
distortion, mutilation, or other modification described in paragraph (3) of subsection (a).

(d) Duration of Rights.—(1) With respect to works of visual art created on or after the effective
date set forth in section 610(a) of the Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990, the rights conferred by
subsection (a) shall endure for a term consisting of the life of the author.

(2) With respect to works of visual art created before the effective date set forth in section
610(a) of the Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990, but title to which has not, as of such effective
date, been transferred from the author, the rights conferred by subsection (a) shall be coextensive
with, and shall expire at the same time as, the rights conferred by section 106.

(3) In the case of a joint work prepared by two or more authors, the rights conferred by subsection
(a) shall endure for a term consisting of the life of the last surviving author.

(4) All terms of the rights conferred by subsection (a) run to the end of the calendar year in which
they would otherwise expire.

(e) Transfer and Waiver.—(1) The rights conferred by subsection (a) may not be transferred, but
those rights may be waived if the author expressly agrees to such waiver in a written instrument
signed by the author. Such instrument shall specifically identify the work, and uses of that work,
to which the waiver applies, and the waiver shall apply only to the work and uses so identified. In
the case of a joint work prepared by two or more authors, a waiver of rights under this paragraph
made by one such author waives such rights for all such authors.

(2) Ownership of the rights conferred by subsection (a) with respect to a work of visual art is
distinct from ownership of any copy of that work, or of a copyright or any exclusive right under a
copyright in that work. Transfer of ownership of any copy of a work of visual art, or of a copyright
or any exclusive right under a copyright, shall not constitute a waiver of the rights conferred by
subsection (a). Except as may otherwise be agreed by the author in a written instrument signed by
the author, a waiver of the rights conferred by subsection (a) with respect to a work of visual art
shall not constitute a transfer of ownership of any copy of that work, or of ownership of a
copyright or of any exclusive right under a copyright in that work.






                            # The main one (above is referenced in it)
                    @- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -@
                    ///// 107. Limitations on exclusive rights: Fair use /////
                    @- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -@


Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 106 and 106A, the fair use of a copyrighted work,
including such use by reproduction in copies or phonorecords or by any other means specified by that
section, for purposes such as criticism, comment, news reporting, teaching (including multiple
copies for classroom use), scholarship, or research, is not an infringement of copyright. In
determining whether the use made of a work in any particular case is a fair use the factors to be
considered shall include—

(1) the purpose and character of the use, including whether such use is of a commercial nature or is
for nonprofit educational purposes;

(2) the nature of the copyrighted work;

(3) the amount and substantiality of the portion used in relation to the copyrighted work as a whole
; and

(4) the effect of the use upon the potential market for or value of the copyrighted work.

The fact that a work is unpublished shall not itself bar a finding of fair use if such finding is
made upon consideration of all the above factors.